# How you’ve addressed prior feedback (2 pts)
Developed an R code to determine if allele frequency influences whether we have power to detect an effect on expression, as stated in Rajiv’s feedback. Additionally, we corrected the bin size to be 0.01, as to better mimic the original figure we are attempting to replicate. In terms of statistical tests, we veered away from the Kruskal-Wallace test and instead opted for the series of Fisher's exact tests with one test per derived allele frequency bin, as advised. 
We also addressed the confusion on the inclusion of Denisovans in our project, in response to peer feedback
# New progress since last submission (4 pts)
Still optimizing the code in R because of the feedback, however it is looking good and we are making great headway
Generated a graph with variantPIP versus number of SNPs 
Generated a subsection of this graph that zooms in on the introgressed genes for both Neanderthals and Denisovans
Currently writing code to identify SNPs with high PIP threshold in the alignment files to identify genes of interest for literature search to determine gene relevance 
# Project Organization (2 pts)
Josh: Align credible sets from finemapping MAGE eQTL based on varying PIP thresholds with SNPs from Sprime dataset based on if the Sprime matches either neanderthals or denisovans.
Josh & Caroline: Generate figures for neanderthal matches and generate figures for Denisovan matches
Fijare: Generating a code to determine the most significantly introgressed SNPs and genes correlated to those SNPs. Additionally, will be performing a literature search to determine the importance/relevance of those genes/SNPs.
# Struggles you are encountering and questions you would like advice on (2 pts)
We have realized that we do not fully understand what Derived Allele Frequency is and to incorporate Rajiv’s feedback: “I think you could then formulate your tests as a series of Fisher's exact tests -- one test per derived allele frequency bin”, we will need to determine how to get DAF to be able to perform a Fisher’s exact test. Is there a way we can get/calculate DAF from our dataset even without access to the Human Genome Project?
